# Theo's Journal 2020-11-20

## COVID-19 Statistics for the Heritage neighborhood

The COVID-19 statistics for San Francisco and for the neighborhood are taking a turn for the worse. The area surrounding the Heritage campus is fairly OK. The statistics for the Chestnut Street area between Filmore and Lyon are not looking good. The numbers are similar to the numbers for the Tenderloin, Mission and Hunters Point.

Here is link to a page on this website for tracking the statistcs for the area around the Heritage:

[2020 ~ COVID 19 ~ Statistics]( https://heritagesf.github.io/#pages/2020-C19-Statistics.md )

I have been updating the numbers every day for the past few days. I plan to continue doing so for a while. Any suggestions for improving the display and facilitating recognition of what is going on willl be appreciated.


## COVID-19 Heads Up

The articles of interest appeared recently

### [The Coronavirus Is Airborne Indoors. Why Are We Still Scrubbing Surfaces?]( https://www.nytimes.com/2020/11/18/world/asia/covid-cleaning.html )

>Scientists who initially warned about contaminated surfaces now say that the virus spreads primarily through inhaled droplets, and that there is little to no evidence that deep cleaning mitigates the threat indoors.

>In my opinion, a lot of time, energy and money is being wasted on surface disinfection and, more importantly, diverting attention and resources away from preventing airborne transmission,” said Dr. Kevin P. Fennelly, a respiratory infection specialist with the United States National Institutes of Health.

>“But remember: The air you’re breathing in is basically communal.”

I am still doing my best to wash my hand and to be aware of what I touch may have been touched recently by others. But my main focus is to be conscious of whether I an in a place with excellent ventilation.


### Supermarket most likely place for Brits to have visited before positive Covid test

Public Health England [Weekly Influenza and COVID-19 Surveillance graphs]( https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/936672/Weekly_COVID-19_and_Influenza_Surveillance_Graphs_w47.pdf )

See pages 16 and 17.

The chart titled "Common locations reported by people testing positive in week 46, England" points out that 18.3% of the new COVID-19 cases in the second week of November may have occurred in the setting of a supermarket.

See also https://www.the-sun.com/news/1826530/supermarkets-most-common-place-catch-covid/ for a video of the movements of droplets.

I have been shopping once a week at Safeway. I am reconsidering whether I wil do so next week.


## Julia Morgan Bibliography

Thanks to Gardner's input, this page is being updated frequently.

See: https://heritagesf.github.io/#pages/Julia-Morgan-Links.md


## Julia Morgan Drawings for the Heritage

Oleg K has made available for viewing a set of copies of Julia Morgan's 1925 drawings for the Heritage. They are currently on a table in the art room in the basement.

Gardner and I scanned the drawings the other day. The scanned images are available here:

See: https://heritagesf.github.io/#scans/1925-heritage-drawings-morgan/README.md

The images are scans of paper prints created from a microfilm of blueprints created from the original drawings. The scanned images are not easy top read.

The search for better images is to be continued.



***

<center><a href=javascript:window.scrollTo(0,0); class=aDingbat title="Scroll to top" > ❧ </a></center>
