# Heritage on the Marina (HotM)
# Residents Council Meeting Notes
# February 24, 2023 ~ Friendship Hall

## Present
Patrick Alexander, Martha Torres, Paula Cornyn, Theo Armour

## Staff
Mary Linde, Jeff Brenner, Hanh Ta, Jon Casey. Oleg Korsunsky, Brandon Maderos, Kara Rajput

## Board
Scott, Randy, David, Scott

## Welcome
President Patrick Alexander called the meeting to order at 10:00 am.

New residents Charmly Ingham, Tucker Ingham and Nancy O were introduced.

There will be a dinner for members of the HotM Board of Directors to dine with residents on Wednesday April 26th. 4:30 pm Happy Hour and 5:15 pm dinner.

Many thanks to departing team members Oleg Korsunsky and Brandon Maderos for for their contributions to the maintaining the premises in good order during the difficult times of the pandemic. We wish them the best of luck in their future endeavors.

Core Works will be starting to manage maintenance on March 15

If you would like packages delivered to inside your apartment, please contact the Front Office.

## CEO Report ~ Mary Linde

This is the semi annual meeting. It is required by law under the contract statutes that we have two of these meetings a year. They are meant to provide "free discussion of subjects including, but not limited to, income, expenditures, and financial trends and issues as they apply to the continuing care retirement community and proposed changes in policies, programs, and services."

January is the start of the new budget year. We review the budget approved by the board of directors in December.

## Sales and Marketing Report ~ Jeff Brenner

The last pieces of the Morgan renovation and dining room refresh are nearly in place. Some new pieces of furniture will be arriving. There are four units slated for renovation. Larger one or two bedroom units will have washers and ventless dryers.

A computer has been installed in the library to allow access to the library catalog. The new voice over Internet protocol is being rolled out now. A roll out of the new Internet will happen soon. We are looking into the challenges of connecting to the Friendship Hall and mcGinley room TVs.

There have been a lot of marketing updates. We are now running a lot more ads digitally, rather than in print. We are seeing a lot of expanded traffic. As a result, Patti and I are running a lot more tours. We have four units that have been spoken for.

We have started working with Next Village. We will be doing a large group tour for seniors in March.

Patrick Alexander: We now have new telephone numbers. Are the old numbers going away?
Jeff Brenner: I believe we don't have any changes to the main number lines.

Nancy Stent: It would really help for us to know ahead of time the phone was going to change. Jeff: We did not expect any kind of end user issues. Shame on us for not knowing better.

Nancy Stent: When I was making the move into retirement, I found a fantastic Club Heritage event that existed and it has not been replaced.
Jeff: My goal is to boost up Club Heritage and build that kind of network again.

## NHA/Operations Report ~ Hanh Ta

Before I start the COVID report, I want to introduce Kara Rajput - our interim director of rehab.

Kara: Good morning everyone. I am the Interim Director of rehab. I'm an occupational therapist by trade. We have a great rehab diverse program. We do anything from balance training, strengthening range of motion. please feel free can call me to get started on the therapy program.

Hanh: Covert protocols will be integrated into our normal infection control programs..we will still emphasize vaccinations and trying to get more people to get boosters. And we will continue having got flu clinic every year. So it will all probably end up being combined.

Testing up is just will continue. One or two individuals who came in tested positive, and they did not know it. Our last positive case was on February 15th.


## Strategic Plan Report ~ Mary Linde

On Wednesday, we submitted the strategic plan to the state planning office.We got in front of the city in October. We expect a two year approval process. We expected to take until the end of 2024.

An easy way to access the data is through the Heritage Web site. See https://heritageonthemarina.org/heritage-repositioning/

Regarding the skilled nursing center closure, we are about five weeks away from the April 1st anticipated closure day. The residents who live in the nursing home and their families have received the news really well. We are anticipating taking our six contracted residents into our assisted living. Our two private patients are both accepted until local nursing homes.

We are now in the process of determining.I've decided where to go in terms of our staff. 26 in the nursing home received playoff notices from us. 15 applied for full time jobs. We still have nine part time jobs available.

We have started training new staff. We are partnering with a company called career smart..

Yvonne: The trash bins are full by 10 am. This only started with Aging in Place.
Mary: These are good things to bring up.We need to hit on all the areas that need to ramp up.. you just brought up another one that we have to have, have more frequent tries pick up.I'll add it to my list.

Yvonne: We talked a few months ago about getting a vacuum on each floor. What is the status?
Mary: The Last time we talked, we talked about waiting until Core Works got in to see if they could help us purchase a user friendly vacuum. So we have to wait a couple of weeks to see if they can help us with that.

## Budget Report
Mary: Our residents are part of our budget process throughout the year. We have the resident Financial Review Board - a study group that meets quarterly with administration to review the quarterly financials. The quarterly variance report is posted on the resident bulletin board at the lower level. Resident Council does an informal survey in August to help inform our capital budget priorities.

We do a zero balanced budget. That means we we look at every line in that budget. We look at how it was spent last year, how it might be spent next year, needed more doing less work and we find efficiencies and we do that line by line draw the Department Budgets. The next thing we do our capital expenses and holding jobs and we try to get the President's priorities into those capital expenses first. Because this is your home and your life, and then we look at what are the building priorities, what are the maintenance parts we have to hit and we always build a contingency into that budget as well. And then finally, the last thing we do is the actual ancillary charges changes the parking at the beauty shop fees, fees for nursing apartments, those kinds of things.

There are three options that we're working on. One is just a straight build and get us more the square footage. The second is to start having an outside company manage parts of our affairs and help offload some of the costs. And the third would be a full affiliation.
We are working on all these things. The board insists that we have options that we are improving.

Fred Wentker: One of the dangers of outsourcing is losing control. What are we going to do to make sure we don't lose control?
Mary: We know it can work because it already works with Morrison. And I've worked with core works before. They are not our employees, but they are employed by us. And so they still report to us.

Martha Torres: This may seem stupid question but probably not if we ultimately affiliated and how does the campus get assessed and let's say we're assessed for $10 million, where does that money go?
Jon Casey: that $10 million is called an inherent contribution and that tcontribution goes on the new owner's books. The portfolio and what what would happen with that, is the bigger piece. Does that become the control? of the parent?  Or does that stay in control by Heritage? Typically no money is exchanged.

Patrick: I think at the end of June, we are due for a rate increase to the money we pay. Perhaps Jon will address that particular question.
Mary: That's the whole point of the meeting. The meeting is absolutely about the rate increase the budget and what goes into the budget to prevent rate increase.

Jon: In the budget review, revenue decreased mostly in the skilled nursing facility. We really only have the first quarter in the budget. Expenses decreased and full time employees (FTEs) will reduce. The servers are transferring over to Morrison.And they will no longer be our employees and that's a big savings for us.

We are projecting an operating loss at 5.6 million.Budget is 2.4 million..So the monthly increase for all contracts is 6.5%. The staff increase is in a range bewteen 0 and 5%. You've just given a cost of living increase at 3%. We are still in discussion about a whole merit type program for staff.


Martha Torres: What about the elevators In the Francisco flats.
Mary Linde: We did a fairly comprehensive study this year in that elevator. And we had we tried to put it in our budget. Initially, it's going to cost more than a million million that have to do that. Needs to be completely taken out a new new entryway and a new landfill. So we looked at it and I'm sorry to say serves few people in the community. And we decided we not to let in the master plan.

Monique: The elevator is scary when it stops between floors. It is consistently broken.
Mary Linde: I know.

Yvonne Benedict: If you've been riding you know it's going to have its own problems. The van is scary when you are driving around.
Mary Linde: I wasn't aware that van wasn't running well. I can certainly look at the anatomy of contingency plans. I have not heard one thing about upgrading the van this year.

Martha Torres: I'm looking at the budget in our revenue. Where do we get the difference? What how would you like to do that?
Jon Casey: So again, we dip into the portfolio. We anticipate the portfolio is going to gain about 6.8% this year. We use about 1.4 to 1.5 million a quarter. We have a lot to make up. That's why we clided skilled nursing and moved servers to Morrison. It's also about getting entrance fees. We feel the 6.5% is acceptable.

Martha Torres: Most of us on some type of portfolio and it's a gamble it's going to happen. This year, our portfolio will go up 7% That would be ideal, but the markets aren't doing that anymore. And I just think that that portfolio to have a budget of over 12 million. It's scary.
Mary Linde: That's a surprise. We've been talking about these kinds of numbers, at least since I've been here. Three years ago the board hired me to lead the plan. And we know that we can't continue the way we're doing it and we know that that we do it will be our demise.

Martha Torres: Of this 12,370,000 which are the plans that will ultimately be, you know, re the reconstruction. Are they going to be demolished, you know, are we putting money in here? Later, we're just going to get rid of those states.
Mary Linde: Yes and no. And we're doing that carefully and strategically. So for instance, we did some first floor refresh and working with the internet renovation and remodel in a repositioning but the dining room will be demolished. We put small amounts into the dining room to keep it fresh. I've been asked 100 times to change the carpeting in the skilled nursing home and there was no way it was going to a good investment.

Monique: I've heard discussion I have not heard one thing for the Octavia and Francisco flats. We also live here. We feel left out in every aspect of the service and we have complaints in total in the group. We did not get the services that we expected. I've been here nine years now. I still have problems. I hear this with the plant and the services and everything.
Mary Linde: When the flats were put into operation, they really weren't operationalized with policy that really supported the flats. I have worked on this for two years on operationalizing policy. I think we do reasonable things in place for trash bins and for garage cleaning. I don't think it's unreasonable. I don't think we need to be in there every week. Oleg and I have had multiple conversations about that and he's changed their process.

Martha Torres: One of the things I recently witnessed being off in the flats, there was a fire alarm. The police or the fire department didn't even know we were part of the campus.
Mary Linde: There's a lot of myth around that incident. The incident was because the rain was hitting sideways into the building, and our enunciator panel couldn't notify us the way it normally does. Somebody said you should have known that. Well, we never had rain like that.

Martha Torres: I want to know that the fire department goes to us. How do we know the protocol if we don't know the protocol.
Jeff Brenner: So in that incident, the fire department went directly to the apartment in the building. That functioned as intended. What we get on this side tells us that the alarms over there is going off. The breakdown was when they did get to see the fire panel they couldn't identify an issue. That's what causes the continuous alarms to go over and over again, six minutes of alarms, which is way too long.

Another piece of balancing to the heritage is that we have our local engine here, and they respond on time. But if they're already going to call we're going to get the next closest that's not going to current call. And that's a complete crapshoot in terms of showing up that know the building and know where to respond. I've been going through with the group every year of new recruits that go into our station so that they are aware of where they're responding to, the way our alarms are laid out and the way the response works at Heritage just quickly

Nancy Stent: Money question: about usually toward the end of January, beginning of February, we get a letter from Baker Tilly.
Joe Casey: The letters were sent out yesterday to you or your durable power of attorney.

Patrick Alexander: The people doing the paper, ho are they and what do they do? Martha Torres: What do they charge?
Joe Casey: The audit firm? Baker Tilly do letters as part of the fee that we pay them overall for the audit. It's in the fee that we pay for. I've worked where that the letters were done in house, we may sign them sometimes with letterhead and they're still done by by the audit firms. Here Baker Tilly sends them out and I got them, reviewed them, and approved them.

Patrick Alexander thanked staff and Board members for attending and called for the meeting to be closed.
